Difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM
JVM
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is called a virtual machine because it
doesn't physically exist. It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which
Java bytecode can be executed. It can also run those programs that are written in other
languages and compiled to Java bytecode.

JVMs are available for many hardware and software platforms. JVM, JRE, and JDK are
platform dependent because the configuration of each OS is different from that of others.
However, Java is platform independent.
There are three notions of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance.

The JVM performs the following main tasks:

Loads code
Verifies code
Executes code
Provides runtime environment
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment. It is also written as Java RTE. The
Java Runtime Environment is a set of software tools that are used for developing
Java applications. It is used to provide the runtime environment. It is the
implementation of JVM. It physically exists. It contains a set of
libraries + other files that the JVM uses at runtime.

The implementation of JVM is also actively released by other companies
besides Sun Microsystems.
JDK
JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software
development environment that is used to develop Java applications and applets. It
physically exists. It contains JRE + development tools.

JDK is an implementation of any one of the below given Java Platforms released by Oracle Corporation:

Standard Edition Java Platform
Enterprise Edition Java Platform
Micro Edition Java Platform

The JDK contains a private Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and a few other resources, such as
an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation
generator (Javadoc), etc., to complete the development of a Java Application

JDK Vs. JRE Vs. JVM
Feature                 JDK                                     JRE                                                 JVM
Definition  Java Development Kit (JDK)              Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is a         Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is an abstract
            is a software development kit used      software package that provides Java         machine that provides an environment for
            to develop Java applications.           Virtual Machine (JVM), class                the execution of Java ByteCodes.
                                                    libraries and other components to run
                                                    applications in Java.


Functions   Provides tools for developing Java     It provides an environment for executing    The virtual machine that runs the bytecode
            applications. It includes compiler     Java applications.It includes JVM and       generated by the compiler.It's a part of
            (javac), JRE, and debugging tools.     libraries required to run Java programs,    JRE and is platform-dependent but provides
                                                   but does not include development tools.     a platform-independent execution environment.


Use Cases   Used by developers to write, compile,  Used by end-users to execute Java           Converts bytecode into machine code and
            and debug Java programs.               applications without needing development    executes it on the underlying hardware.
                                                   tools.


Platform    It is platform dependent.              It is platform dependent.                   It is platform dependent.
Dependency

Implementation JDK = JRE + Development tools       JRE = JVM + Class libraries                 JVM = provides a runtime environment.

Notes are remaining https://www.tpointtech.com/jvm-java-virtual-machine





