Q1. why we have separate jdk for each os version ?
While Java is famously "write once, run anywhere," the Java Development Kit (JDK) must be platform-specific because
it acts as the bridge between your universal code and the unique hardware/software of your Operating System (OS).
We have separate JDKs for each OS because:
JVM is Platform-Dependent: The Java Virtual Machine (JVM), which is part of the JDK, is the engine that actually
executes your code. Since every OS (Windows, macOS, Linux) handles memory, threads, and file systems differently,
the JVM must be custom-built for each OS to translate universal Java bytecode into specific machine-level instructions.
Native Tooling: The JDK includes tools like the compiler (javac) and debugger (jdb) which are native executable files.
Just as a .exe file won't run natively on Linux, the JDK's internal binary tools must be compiled specifically for
the OS they inhabit.
OS-Specific Libraries: While Java provides a standard API, some operations (like graphical windowing or networking)
 require calling "native" code. The JDK includes these native libraries (e.g., .dll on Windows, .so on Linux)
to allow Java to communicate with the OS kernel.
Hardware Architecture: Beyond just the OS, JDKs are also separated by CPU architecture (like x64 vs. ARM/AArch64).
A JDK built for an Intel processor cannot run on an Apple M-series chip because the underlying machine instructions
are fundamentally different.
In short: Java code is platform-independent, but the JDK (the environment that runs it) must be platform-dependent
to handle the "dirty work" of talking to specific hardware.

.java file => .class file
Native calls => OS calls

Native calls refer to the execution of code written in languages like C or C++ from a higher-level language,
most commonly Java (via JNI - Java Native Interface) or React Native. This allows application code to access
platform-specific functionality,hardware, or legacy libraries, enhancing performance or extending capabilities
beyond the virtual machine's standard API.
Key details about native calls:
Purpose: Primarily used for performance optimization, accessing low-level system resources (memory/hardware),
or reusing existing C/C++ libraries.
Mechanism (Java): A method is declared with the native keyword in Java without a body, and its implementation is
provided in a shared library (.dll, .so, or .dylib).
JNI (Java Native Interface): This is the standard framework that allows Java code running in a JVM to call and
be called by native applications and libraries.
Process: The Java program loads a native library using System.loadLibrary(), calls the native method,
and the JVM handles the bridge to the C/C++ function.
Considerations: While enabling advanced capabilities, using native calls increases application complexity,
introduces risks of memory corruption, and does not always guarantee significant performance gains.


How Do Java Native Calls Work?
Let’s look at an example. The method Files.delete in the java.nio.file package is used to delete a file or a directory.
If you look at the implementation, you will see that the method delegates the call to an instance of FileSystemProvider.
There are specializations of this class for different file systems and operating systems. On a Windows system,
WindowsFileSystemProvider.delete gets called, which eventually calls WindowsNativeDispatcher.DeleteFile0.
Now, look at the declaration of this method:

private static native void DeleteFile0(long lpFileName) throws WindowsException;

The keyword native indicates that the method has a native implementation. As you can see, there is no method body that
contains the implementation. Instead, a platform-specific library contains the implementation of this method.
For every platform on which a Java application is supposed to run, there needs to be platform-specific code that gets
called when using Files.delete. This code is responsible for the actual call into the operating system.

If you have a look at your JAVA_HOME\bin directory, you will find a file called nio.dll. It contains the
platform-specific code for the Java NIO functionalities. Using a tool like DLL Export Viewer, you can see that
the DLL contains the function Java_sun_nio_fs_WindowsNativeDispatcher_DeleteFile0.

Why JRE removed in Java 11
The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) was not completely "removed" in Java 11, but rather, Oracle stopped offering it as
a separate public download. This strategic shift was driven by the introduction of the Java Platform Module System
(JPMS) in JDK 9 and a change in how Java applications are expected to be deployed.
Key Reasons for the Change
Shift in Deployment Model: The new model expects developers to bundle a custom, application-specific runtime
environment with their application using the jlink tool. This results in a smaller, optimized, self-contained
application that does not rely on a pre-installed system JRE.
Modularity: The introduction of JPMS (Project Jigsaw) allowed the Java platform to be broken down into modules.
The jlink tool can analyze an application's dependencies and create a minimal runtime that only includes the
necessary modules, significantly reducing the size compared to the old, monolithic JRE.
Security and Updates: In the past, end-users were responsible for updating a system-wide JRE to ensure security patches
were applied, which was often not done consistently. In the new model, the application vendor is responsible for
providing updates that include the latest security fixes within their bundled runtime,
improving the overall security posture.
Removal of Browser Plugins: Java Applets and Java Web Start technologies, which relied on a standalone JRE and browser
plugins, were deprecated in Java 9 and removed in Java 11. This eliminated a major use case for a separate JRE
installation on end-user machines.
Eliminating Duplication: Historically, installing the JDK would install two identical JREs: one inside the JDK
directory and one public system JRE. This was a waste of disk space and maintenance effort.
By providing only the JDK, this redundancy was resolved.