class Test{

fun1(){
-----
-----
-----
}

fun2(){
-----
-----
-----
}

fun3(){
-----
-----
-----
}

psvm(){
Test t = new Test();
t.fun1();
t.fun2();
t.fun3();
}
}
normally, if the class is compiled and jvm executes the program, then the order of execution
that first fun1() is called and after complete execution of fun1() control comebacks to the main
and then fun2() is called and so on...
-- now let us assume that fun1() has some statement which involves data transfer. We know
that data transfer is not a job of the processor, it is a duty of a separate individual circuit
Direct Access Memory(DMA) which functions under the control of the processor

-- since fun1() has data transfer statements, processor assigns that job to DMA,
during this time the processor(CPU) should remain idle

-- this made s/w developers to think that, efficiency of the processor would be increased if
processor is made to do some other useful work during this idle state.
but useful work is nothing but, executing other functions/methods present in the program

-- this need lead to the concept of multitasking.
-- Remember that processor is also an electric circuit and at any instance of time, it can
execute only one statement. it can not execute multiple statement simultaneously

multiTasking :- It is the concept of executing multiple tasks/functionality simultaneously.(functionality
may be from same domain (same application) or from diff domain(diff applications).)

If we apply multiTasking then a part of the one function get executed then control switches to
the another function now here also some part of second function get executed then control switches
to the third function. Then again control comes back to the function1 now it continues function1
from where it had stopped earlier. (switching between one functionality to another functionality
in nanosecond)now when we see the output we feel that three fun executing simultaneously

--- thus, concept of multiTasking comes into existence to avoid the idle state of cpu

--- in multiTasking, a part of a functionality is executed one at a time
and In that part how many statement will be executed decided by scheduling.

Scheduling : It is the process in which a specific time period is allocated to a function
where the control remains in that particular function for that specific time period.
once time period lapsed control switches another fun with another time slice and so on.

Scheduling is supervised by the Scheduler (either OS or ThreadScheduler)

--Thread Scheduler in Java is the part of JVM that decides which thread should run.
The time slice allocated will be in nanoseconds
thus by the time our eye recognize the execution of one part control switches to another part
of the program

Advantages of MultiTasking
1.It is invented to avoid Idle state of the CPU
2.make the function gets executed independently.

1.process based multi tasking
2.thread based multi tasking

example : There are two process in process based multitasking
suppose we have Two different application running in two different memory domain
1. A - Application
2. B - Application
If we are applying multiTasking then some Part of the statements are executing A-Appln domain
and control will switch back to B-Appln domain
e.g we can open notepad, vlc player, vs code, intellij ide, file explorer and so on
Here Scheduling done by OS Scheduler

Thread Based MultiTasking ==> Thread Scheduler will perform scheduling.
Only one application there and That application done different,different functionality done simultaneously.
In this same function and that different,different methods call simultaneously

-- java supports Thread Based MutiTasking

Process Based MultiTasking
--------------------------
concept of executing more than one program simultaneously which are present in different location
of ram is known as process based multiTasking.
here processor has to maintained address of both the program since control has to shift from
one part of ram to another. It increases overhead on processor.

-- here OS will perform the scheduling.

ThreadBased Multitasking
-------------------------

concept of executing more than one function simultaneously belonging to the same memory domain
is known as ThreadBased multiTasking

-- here thread-scheduler will do the scheduling

MultiThreading in java
MultiThreading is a programming concept in which the application can create a small unit of tasks to
execute in parallel.If you are working on computer, it runs multiple applications and allocates
processing power to them.A simple program runs in sequence and the code statements execute one by one.
This is a single-threaded application,But if the programming language supports creating multiple
threads and passes them to the operating system to run in parallel, it's called multithreading.
Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing
and multithreading both are used to achieve multitasking.

However, we use multithreading than multiprocessing because threads use a shared memory area.
They don't allocate separate memory areas so saves memory and context-switching between the
threads takes less time than process.

Advantages of Java MultiThreading
1.It doesn't block the user because threads are independent, and you can perform multiple operations at the same time
2.You can perform many operations together, so it saves time.
3.Threads are independent, so it doesn't affect other threads if an exception occurs in a single thread.

Some Application areas to apply MultiThreading
> To develop multimedia graphics.
> To develop animations.
> To develop video games.
> To develop Web Servers.

MultiTasking.
MultiTasking is the process of executing multiple tasks simultaneously. We use multiTasking to
utilize the CPU. MultiTasking can be achieved in two ways:
> Process-based MultiTasking (Multiprocessing)
> Thread-based MultiTasking (Multithreading)

Process-based MultiTasking (Multiprocessing)
> Each process has an address in memory. In other words, each process allocates a separate memory area.
> A process is heavyweight
> The cost of communication between process is high
> Switching from one process to another require some time for saving and loading registers,
  memory maps, updating lists etc.


  Thread-based MultiTasking (Multithreading)
  > Thread shares same address space(a thread is a part of process)
  > A thread is lightweight
  > The cost of communication between the thread is low

  Note : At least one process is required for each thread

  Thread in java
  An application when it is under execution is called a process.
  A thread is a part or sub-process of an application.
  A thread is lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. It is a
  separate path of execution.
  A thread is separate flow of execution that execute some functionality of a program
  with the other part of the program simultaneously.

 Note: In Java, every program/application has a default flow of execution, a default
 thread, it is called the main thread. if we can another flow of execution(another thread)
 along with the main thread simultaneously then it is called a multithreaded appln or program

 Implementing thread in Java.
 Implementing thread in Java is two-step process:
 1.first of all, we have to define a functionality that can be executed as a thread
 along with the main thread
 2.Start that functionality as a thread.

 Thread(C) class and Runnable(I) Interface are the two structures using which we implement
 thread based multiTasking in java.

The signature of a function using which we implement a thread is defined in an interface
by the name Runnable
This runnable interface belongs to java.lang package. it has only one abstract method
public void run();

    Inside this run() method we need to define the functionality, that we want to execute
    as a thread along with the main thread. after providing the body we need to execute
    this functionality as a thread (i.e simultaneously with the other part of the program.)

    There is a class by the name Thread present in java.lang package, which has a method
    called start(). this start() method is used to execute a given functionality defined
    inside the run() method of Runnable Interface as a separate thread.

    This start() method of the Thread class recognize the run method() of the runnable
    interface and then the run() method is executed as a separate individual thread.

    Note : Internally the Thread class implements the Runnable Interface and
    override run() method with empty implementation

    package MultiThreading;

    public class UsingThreadClass extends Thread {

        @Override
        public void run(){
            System.out.println("run method start.....");
            for (int i=0; i<15; i++){
                System.out.println("inside run method "+i);
            }
            System.out.println("end of run() method");
        }

        public static void main(String[] args) {
            // ----- here one thread (main)
            UsingThreadClass threadClass = new UsingThreadClass();
    //        threadClass.run();//it will be called as a normal method
              threadClass.start();

            for (int i=25; i<50; i++){
                System.out.println("inside main method "+i);
            }

            System.out.println("end of main() method...");
        }
    }

Here functionality of the start() method is to pick the run() method present
in the object on which start() method is called and to handover this run()
method to the thread-scheduler for the Scheduling.
Control will be in the main() method and other statements of main() will be executed
simultaneously along with run() method.
Since both the threads are getting executed simultaneously, the start/end
execution of thread completely depends on the time slice allocated for each
method thread.
Because of scheduling we can't guess the output of above application.

Responsibility of start() method of Thread class:
The start() method present in the Thread class is responsible to perform all
the mandatory activity which are required for our thread. (like registering our thread
with the Thread-scheduler,performing all low level task to start a separate flow of
execution and then calling the run() method).
hence without executing thread class start() method there is no chance of starting new
thread in java
After starting a thread we are not allowed to restart the same thread once again
otherwise we will get a runtime exception called IllegalThreadStateException














