class
Object
interface
variables
methods
data types
packages
keyword
access modifiers
operators
constructors
compiler

package
    ==> It contains classes with similar functionality
    In Java, a package is a mechanism for grouping related classes, interfaces, and sub-packages into a structured namespace
Key Purposes and Benefits
    Avoids Naming Conflicts: Packages allow multiple classes to have the same name as long as they are in different packages
                            (e.g., com.company.sales.Employee and com.company.marketing.Employee).
    Access Control: Packages provide a level of access control using modifiers like public, protected, and default (package-private),
                    which restrict visibility of classes and members to other parts of the program.
    Code Organization and Maintainability: They help in logically organizing hundreds or thousands of classes into functional units,
                                            making it easier to navigate, update, and manage the codebase.
    Code Reusability: Classes within a package can be easily reused across different projects or by other developers by
                      simply importing the package or class.
    Encapsulation: Packages enhance encapsulation by allowing developers to hide internal implementation details
                   and expose only necessary functionalities.

Types of Packages
Java has two main types of packages:
Built-in Packages: These are predefined packages that come with the Java Development Kit (JDK) as part of the Java API.
Examples include:
java.lang: Contains fundamental classes like String, Math, and Object. This package is automatically imported into every Java program.
java.util: Provides utility classes, such as ArrayList, HashMap, and Scanner, for data structures and time operations.
java.io: Includes classes for input and output operations, such as FileReader and BufferedReader
java.net: Contains classes essential for networking applications, like Socket and URL.
User-defined Packages: Developers can create their own custom packages to organize project-specific classes and interfaces.
                        This is done using the package keyword at the beginning of the Java source file.



keywords
    ==> Keywords in Java are predefined, reserved words that have a special meaning to the Java compiler. These words form the
    core of the Java language's syntax and cannot be used by programmers as identifiers
    (names for variables, methods, classes, or any other program elements).

2. Control Flow Keywords
    if
        Executes code when a condition is true.
    else
        Defines an alternate block when an if condition is false.
    switch
        Selects one block of code among multiple options
    case
        Defines an individual branch in a switch statement
    default
        Defines the block executed if no case matches
    for
         used to start a for loop.
    break
        used to exit a loop or switch statement
# Sequence
Object Class Methods
String
Exception Handling
MultiThreading
Collection
Java 8

Q.1 how many keywords are there in java ?
    As of Java 21, there are 53 keywords, which are reserved words with predefined meanings, including 51 active keywords
     and two unused reserved words (const and goto). They cannot be used as identifiers (variable or method names) and
     are case-sensitive. Some sources indicate 50-52 active keywords depending on the version.

Q2. What is Class in java ?
    In Java, a class is a fundamental, user-defined blueprint or template used to create objects. It is a logical entity
     that defines the structure and behavior (state and actions) that all objects of its type will share.

1. Class is Not a Real-World Entity:
A class is an abstract concept and acts as a blueprint for creating objects. It represents the definition
 but not the physical existence of an entity.
Example: A "Car" class defines properties like color, model, and speed but does not represent any specific car
until instantiated.
2. Class Does Not Occupy Memory:
Unlike objects, classes themselves do not occupy memory until an object is created from the class.
Example: Declaring a class does not allocate space in memory until you create an object using the new keyword.
3. Class is a Grouping Mechanism:

A class is a logical container that groups variables (data members) and methods (functions).
These elements collectively define the behavior and state of objects created by the class.
Data Members: Variables that hold data specific to the objects of the class.
class Car {
    String color;
    int speed;
}
Methods: Functions that define the behavior or actions of the objects
void drive() {
    System.out.println("The car is driving.");
}
Constructor: A special method used to initialize objects when they are created.
Car(String color, int speed) {
    this.color = color;
    this.speed = speed;
}
Nested Class: A class within another class, useful for logical grouping or encapsulation.
class Outer {
    class Inner {
        void display() {
            System.out.println("This is a nested class.");
        }
    }
}
Interface: A blueprint for a class to implement, containing abstract methods.
interface Vehicle {
    void start();
}

Syntax of class in Java

access_modifier class<class_name>
{
  data member;
  method;
  constructor;
  nested class;
  interface;
}

