//Important
Java 8, 9,  11, 17, 21, 24  study

What is functional Interface in Java ?
The interface which contains only one abstract method is called as Functional Interface

SAM => Single Abstract Method

1 interface AAA which contains 2 abstract methods

let's add  1 more method in interface AAA

100 classes which implements AAA

I want to add new method in interface AAA but without having impact on 100 implementation classes

1) default method
2) static method

Lambda Expression

backward compatibility =>
    Adding something new without breaking existing features and without breaking existing working code

abstract class vs interface after java 8

Functional interfaces provided by java ?
1) Comparator  => compare()
2) Comparable  => compareTo()
3) Runnable    => run()
4) consumer    => accept()
5) Predicate   => test()
6) Callable    => call()
7) Function    => apply()
8) Supplier    => get()
9) BinaryOperator =

Java 8 introduced several powerful features to the language, and one of the most significant among them is
the concept of functional interfaces.
Functional interfaces form the backbone of lambda expressions and method references,making them a crucial
component of modern Java programming.

Let’s delve deep into what functional interfaces are, their importance, and how they are used.

What is a Functional Interface?
A functional interface is an interface that contains exactly one abstract method. This single abstract method
makes the interface suitable for use with lambda expressions and method references. Functional interfaces can have
multiple default or static methods, but only one abstract method.

The @FunctionalInterface annotation is used to explicitly declare an interface as a functional interface.
While this annotation is not mandatory, it helps the compiler catch errors if the interface does not
conform to the rules of a functional interface.

Common Functional Interfaces in Java
Java 8 introduced several pre-defined functional interfaces in the java.util.function package to support
lambda expressions and method

What is Lambda Expression
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Java 8 lambda expression is a concise way to represent an anonymous function
    (a function without a name, return type, or access modifier).
It provides an inline implementation for the single abstract method of a functional interface
(an interface with exactly one abstract method).

Interface Vs Abstract Class After Java 8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Differences Between Interface And Abstract Class After Java 8 :
1) Fields
Interface fields are public, static and final by default. Interfaces still don’t support
non-static and non-final variables.
Interfaces can only have public, static and final variables. On the other hand,
abstract class can have static as well as non-static and final as well as non-final variables.
They also support private and protected variables along with public variables.

2) Methods
After Java 8, an interface can have default and static methods along with abstract methods.
    Interfaces don’t support final methods.
But, abstract classes support final as well as non-final methods and static as well as
    non-static methods along with abstract methods.
Also note that, only interfaces can have default methods. Abstract classes can’t have default methods.

3) Constructors
    Interfaces can’t have constructors. Abstract classes can have any number of constructors

4) Member’s Accessibility
    All members of interfaces are public by default. Interfaces don’t support private and protected members.
But, abstract classes support all type of members – private, protected and public members.

5) Multiple Inheritance
    A class can extend only one abstract class, but can implement multiple interfaces. Thus, a class can
inherit multiple properties from multiple sources only through interfaces, not through abstract classes.

Difference between Anonymous Class and Lambda Expression
In Java, an anonymous class is an inner class without a name, primarily used for one-time,
localized object creation, while a lambda expression is a concise syntax for creating
an instance of a functional interface (an interface with a single abstract method).

Anonymous classes allow you to declare and instantiate a class at the same time, often used to override
methods of a class or implement an interface without formally defining a new, named class.
Runnable r = new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("In run method");
    }
};
Usage: They can implement interfaces with multiple abstract methods or extend abstract/concrete classes.
They can also have fields and additional methods.
Scope: An anonymous class introduces a new scope, so the this keyword refers to
the anonymous class instance itself.
Compilation: The compiler generates a separate .class file for each anonymous class,
            which can increase the application's size.

Lambda Expressions
Lambda expressions, introduced in Java 8, provide a more concise way to represent an
anonymous function, treating functionality as a method argument or code as data.
Syntax: The syntax is much shorter, using an arrow -> to separate the parameter list from the body.

Runnable r = () -> System.out.println("In run method");

Usage: They are specifically designed for use with functional interfaces (interfaces with a single abstract method).
Scope: Lambdas do not introduce a new scope; this refers to the enclosing class instance,similar to a local variable.
They can only access local variables that are final or effectively final.
Compilation: No separate .class file is generated; the lambda body is converted into a private method of the outer class,
       using the invokedynamic instruction for dynamic binding. This is more efficient
in terms of class loading and memory footprint.

Summary of Key Differences
Feature 	        Anonymous Class	                                        Lambda Expression
Applicability	    Any interface (single or multiple abstract methods)     Functional interfaces only
                    or class (abstract/concrete)                            (single abstract method)

Syntax	            Verbose, requires class definition boilerplate	         Concise,
                                                                             uses -> syntax (anonymous function)

this Keyword	    Refers to the anonymous class itself	                 Refers to the enclosing class

Scope	            Creates a new scope, can shadow variables	              Part of the enclosing scope,
                                                                              cannot shadow local variables

State	            Can declare instance variables and                        Cannot declare instance variables
                    maintain state

Compilation	        Generates a new .class file	                              Converted to a private method using
                                                                                invokedynamic at runtime






















