Static Methods and Method Overriding
Static methods cannot be overridden in Java. When a subclass declares a static method with the same
signature as a static method in its superclass, it does not override the method; instead,
it hides the superclass method. As a result, the method that gets executed is determined
at compile time based on the reference type, not at runtime based on the actual object type.
Therefore, static methods do not support runtime polymorphism like instance methods.

Method overriding is based on dynamic method dispatch, where the method call is resolved at
runtime according to the actual object. However, static methods are associated with the class itself,
not with individual objects, and hence they are resolved at compile time. Because of this,
static methods are not eligible for dynamic dispatch and cannot be overridden

Additionally, there is a difference in how static and instance methods are handled in memory.
Instance methods are invoked through objects and are tied to the heap memory,
while static methods are stored in the method area of the JVM and are shared
among all instances of the class. Due to these fundamental differences in behavior,
binding, and memory allocation, static methods cannot participate in method overriding.

Method Overloading Vs. Method Overriding
The following table shows the demonstrate the difference between Method Overloading and
Method Overriding:

Aspect                          Method Overloading                      Method Overriding
Purpose and Intent     Method overloading is used to        Method overriding is used to provide the
                       increase the readability of          specific implementation of the method that
                       the program.                         is already provided by its superclass.

Relationship between    Method overloading is               Method overriding occurs in two classes
Classes                 performed within class.             that have IS-A (inheritance) relationship.


Parameter               In case of method overloading,      In case of method overriding,
Requirements            parameters must be different.       parameters must be the same.


Polymorphism Type       Method overloading is the example   Method overriding is the
                        of compile-time polymorphism.       example of runtime polymorphism.

Return Type            In Java, method overloading can't    Return type must be the same
Constraints            be performed by changing the         or covariant in method overriding.
                       return type of the method only.
                       Return type can be the same or
                       different in method overloading,
                       but you must have to change the
                       parameter.

Access Modifiers        It can have any access modifier.    The overriding method cannot have
                                                            a more restrictive access modifier
                                                            than the overridden method

Exceptions             It can throw any exceptions.         It throws only checked exceptions
                                                            declared in the superclass method or
                                                            its subclasses.

Invocation             It resolved at compile-time.         It resolved at runtime using dynamic
                                                            method dispatch.


Inheritance             Not required.                       Required (through subclassing
                                                            or interface implementation).
Binding             It uses static binding.                 It uses dynamic binding.
Early and Late      It is also known as early binding.    It is also known as late binding.
Binding

Signature Matching  Method signatures must be different.    Method signatures must be identical.

Static Method.      Static method can be overloaded.        Static method cannot be overridden.

Final and Public    It is applicable to both                It is not applicable to private and
Method.              private and final methods.             final methods.

Error.               If any error occurs, can be,            If any error occurs, can be, caught at
                     caught at compile-time.                 run-time.

Java Access Modifiers with Method Overriding
If you are overriding any method, overridden method (i.e. declared in subclass)
must not be more restrictive.
class A{
protected void msg(){System.out.println("Hello java");}
}
public class Simple extends A{
void msg(){System.out.println("Hello java");}//C.T.Error
 public static void main(String args[]){
   Simple obj=new Simple();
   obj.msg();
   }
}
Class A declares a method called msg() with the protected access modifier in the
provided Java code. By extending class A, class Simple aims to replace the message()
function with a default access modifier. But because the default access modifier
is more restricted than protected, this leads to a compile-time error.
When overriding a method in Java, the overridden method's access level in the subclass
needs to be at least as liberal as the method's access level in the superclass.
Thus, in order to fix the issue, either the class Simple method's access modifier-such
as protected or public-should be as liberal as protected, or the class A method should
have a less permissive access modifier-such as default or public.

Covariant Return Type in Java.

The covariant return type in Java allows the return type of overridden method to be a
subtype of the return type defined in the superclass. In other words, we can say the
covariant return type specifies that the return type may vary in the same direction
as the subclass.
Example of Covariant Return Type
class A{
A get(){return this;}
}
class B1 extends A{
@Override
B1 get(){return this;}
void message(){System.out.println("Welcome to the covariant return type");}

public static void main(String args[]){
new B1().get().message();
}
}
In this example, class B1 overrides the get() method of class A using a covariant
return type. The overridden method in B1 returns B1 instead of A, allowing us to call
the message() method directly on the returned object. This demonstrates how covariant
return types enable more specific return types in method overriding.

Advantages of Covariant Return Type
There are following advantages of Covariant Return Type in Java.
1.Covariant return type assists to stay away from the confusing type casts in the class
    hierarchy and makes the code more usable, readable, and maintainable.
2.In the method overriding, the covariant return type provides the liberty to have
  more to-the-point return types.
3. Covariant return type helps in preventing the run-time ClassCastExceptionson returns.